We have mentioned DIE in section 5.3, which is used for describling variables, data types, executable code like functions and compilation unit, etc. Besides DIE, Dwarf also has other important data that is heavily dependent on for symbolic level debuggers.

我们在5.3节中提到了通过DIE描述变量、数据类型、可执行代码（例如函数和编译单元等）。除了这些内容以外，DWARF调试信息中还有几种非常重要的信息需要描述，符号级调试器非常依赖这些数据。

这些数据包括：

- 行号表（Line Number Table）

    The Dwarf line number table contains the mapping between the memory address of executable code of a program and the source lines that corresponds to these address. 

- 宏信息（Macro Information）

    Most debuggers have a very difficult time displaying and debugging code which has macros. The user sees the original source file, with the macros, while the code corresponds to whatever the macros generated. 

    Dwarf includes the description of the macros defined in the progam. This is quite rudimentary information, but can be used by a debugger to display the values for a macro or possibly translate the macro into the corresponding source language. 

- 调用栈信息（Call Frame Information）

    Every processor has a certain **way of determining how to pass parameters and return values**, this is defined by the **processor’s ABI (Application Binary Interface)**. 

    Dwarf call frame information (CFI) provides the debugger enough information about how a function is called, how to locate the parameters to the functions, how to locate the call frame for the calling function. This information is used by the debugger to unwind the stack, locating the previous function, the location where the function is called, and the values passed. 

- 变长数据（Variable Length Data）

    Integer values are used throughout Dwarf to represent everything from offsets into data sections to sizes of arrays or structures. Since most values can be represented in only a few bits, this means that the data consists mostly of zeros. 

    Dwarf defines a variable length integer, called Little Endian Base 128 (LEB128 for signed integers or ULEB128 for unsigned integers), which compresses the bytes taken up to represent the integers.  

    Wiki: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LEB128 

- 压缩DWARF数据（Shrinking DWARF data）

    The encoding schemes used by Dwarf significantly reduce the size of the debugging information compared to the Dwarf v1. But unfortunately, many programs’ debugging information generated by compilers still can be very large, frequently larger than the executable code and data. 

    Dwarf offers ways to further reduce the size of the debugging data. This part could be neglected here for now, as far as I am concerned. 

- ELF文件格式Sections

    While Dwarf is defined in a way that allows it to be used with any object file format, it’s most often used with ELF.  

    Each of the different kinds of Dwarf data are stored in their own section. The names of these sections all start with prefix ‘.debug_’, for example, .debug_frame contains call frame info, .debug_info contains core dwarf data like DIEs, .debug_line contains the line number program (sequence of instructions to generate the complete line number table).
